+++
date = '2022-09-20T00:00:00+05:00'
draft = false
title = 'PKI Training Cryptography - Day2'
+++


# Certificate Path Validation:
This is performed for all the identities of the chain. It commonly checks for the following things:
1) build & validate the certificate chain from the user certificate upto the trusted root.
2) Check for intended purpose
3) Check for expiry or "not yet valid"
4) Check for revoked certificate

# Certificate Life Cycle
Following are the
1) Register
2) Issue
3) Distribute/Store
4) Use (Sign/Encrypt)
5) Expire/Revoke
6) Renew/Rekey

> Q: Can ECAC issue an Accreditation Certificate for the usage of Signing process?
> Ans:

> Q: Difference between Re-key and Re-new of a Certificate?
> A: Re-newal of a certificate mean that the same key is used for issuance of a new certificate.

# PKI Trust Model
* Single CA PKI:
  * Contains single CA, having the role of root CA and issuing CA.
  * All users of PKI place their trust on this CA.
  * It is not a scalable architecture.
  * Usually used within a small organization.
* Hierarchical PKI:
  * Hierarchical architecture is constructed with subordinate CA relationship.
  * Ideal within organization where multiple CAs
  * Users trust single root CA
  * Subordinate CAs may issue certificates to users or other CAs
  * Trust relationship is specified in only one way architecture.
* Mesh/Bridge or Peer-to-Peer PKI:
  *

Within a certificate an entry is as following:
>**Basic Constraint** Path Length Constraint = None

None means that their is no constraint, but if a numeric value is placed here, the hierarchical levels can't be created after that. This may be used to restrict sub-CAs accreditation process.

# Managed certificates
In any browser/OS has a certificates repository which can be viewed to understand/visualize the trusted root repository.

# PKI Development
All the following libraries are high level libraries and available for PKI development. Normally, business use-cases are generated by the developer and use these following libraries for the Crypto Functions:
* OpenSSL:
  * As a library
  * CLI Based
* BouncyCastle:
  * Java and .Net variants available
  *
* IAIK from TU Graz
  * This has more features from the development perspective.
  * Strong support & strong documentation
  * Commercial purpose require purchase of the library









{::comment}
You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.

Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format:

`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{{< highlight ruby >}}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{{< / highlight >}}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
{:/comment}
